       (CSS and CSS 3)
          Questions


1.    What are the benefits of using CSS?
  Ans:1) Faster Page Speed:
         More code means slower page speed. And CSS enables you to use less code. 
         CSS allows you to use one CSS rule and apply it to all occurrences of a certain tag within an HTML document.

      2) Better User Experience:
         CSS not only makes web pages easy on the eye, it also allows for user-friendly formatting.
         When buttons and text are in logical places and well organized, user experience improves.

      3) Quicker Development Time:
         With CSS, you can apply specific formatting rules and styles to multiple pages with one string of code.
         One cascading style sheet can be replicated across several website pages. If, for instance,
         you have product pages that should all have the same formatting,
         look, and feel, writing CSS rules for one page will suffice for all pages of that same type.

      4) Easy Formatting Changes:
         If you need to change the format of a specific set of pages, it’s easy to do so with CSS. There’s no need to fix every individual page.
         Just edit the corresponding CSS stylesheet and you’ll see changes applied to all the pages that are using that style sheet.

      5) Compatibility Across Devices:
         Responsive web design matters. In today’s day and age, web pages must be fully visible and easily navigable on all devices.
         Whether mobile or tablet, desktop, or even smart TV, CSS combines with HTML to make responsive design possible

2.   What are the disadvantages of CSS?
  Ans:(1)CSS, CSS 1 up to CSS3, result in creating of confusion among  web browsers.

      (2)With CSS, what works with one browser might not always work with another. The web developers need to test for compatibility,
         running the program across multiple browsers.

      (3)There exists a scarcity of security.

      (4)After making the changes we need to confirm the compatibility if they appear. The similar change affects on all the browsers.

      (5)The programming language world is complicated for non-developers and beginners. Different levels of CSS i.e. CSS, CSS 2, CSS 3 are often quite confusing.

      (6)Browser compatibility (some styles sheet are supported and some are not).

      (7)CSS works differently on different browsers. IE and Opera supports CSS as different logic.

      (8)There might be cross-browser issues while using CSS.

      (9)There are multiple levels which creates confusion for non-developers and beginners

3.   What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?
  Ans:(1) CSS1 had a major difficulty with adaptation and consistency across different web browsers. The number of web browsers has also increased largely.
          CSS2 still has browser extension issues. CSS3 has complete support for almost all recent web browsers.
 
      (2)CSS1 had limited styling options and old design influences. The properties and add-ons have increased with CSS2 and further expanded with CSS3.
         CSS3 has support to add animations to your modern websites.
 
      (3)CSS3 has compatibility with external font styles through google fonts and typecast. It was not possible with earlier CSS1 and CSS2.
 
      (4)The selectors in CSS3 has increased while CSS1 and CSS2 only had simple selectors.
 
      (5)CSS1 AND CSS2 didn’t have provision to specifically design the web layout. It is possible with the CSS3 grid system and template layout module. 
         It helped in creating layouts according to user components.
 
      (6)CSS3 has now been split into various documents known as modules. Previously it was all a single document and limited features.
          The modularisation helped in working on a particular specification and faster evolution.
 
      (7)CSS3 is compatible with Internet Explorer 9 whereas CSS1 used to be compatible with Internet Explorer 3.
 
      (8)CSS3 supports responsive design. Responsive design is referred to as designing a website in such a manner that it looks good on all screen sizes.
         It should not break or misalign components on changing the screen size.

4.   Name a few CSS style components
  Ans: (1) selector  (2)  Atribute  (3) value of propaty

5.   What do you understand by CSS opacity?
  Ans:  The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element.
        Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.

6.   How can the background color of an element be changed?
  Ans: select (tag,class,id) and write background color and select your colour after  and then changed your colour.

7.   • How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?
  Ans:using the background-repeat property that will help us to control the repetition of the image. 

8.  What is the use of the background-position property?
  Ans:sets the starting position of a background image.

9.  Which property controls the image scroll in the background?
  Ans:The background-attachment property sets whether a background image scrolls with the rest of the page, or is fixed.

10.  Why should background and color be used as separate properties?
   Ans: It enhances the legibility of style sheets
11.  How to center block elements using CSS1?
   Ans:<center>

12.  How to maintain the CSS specifications?
   Ans:The CSS Specification prior to CSS3 was a single Specification,
       CSS3 on the other hand is divided into Modules which are Independent Specifications that can be worked on by different author(s) at different paces,
       that's why we have Selector Level 3 Specification, CSS Color 4, CSS Backgrounds and so on. Some of these modules are revisions of CSS2.1,
       and some are newly created, but all fall under the banner of CSS3.

13.  What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
   ANs:use Inline CSS in a style attribute.

14.  What is embedded style sheets?
   Ans:It allows you to define styles for a particular HTML document as a whole in one place.
       This is done by embedding the <style></style> tags containing the CSS properties in the head of your document

15.  What are the external style sheets?
   Ans:An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage.

16.  What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?
   Ans: (1) advantages:
                      -Using them, the styles of multiple documents can be controlled from one file.
                      - Classes can be created for use on multiple HTML element types in many documents.
                      - In complex situations, selector and grouping methods can be used to apply styles
       
        (2)  disadvantages:
                           - In order to import style information for each document, an extra download is needed.
                           - Until the external style sheet is loaded, it may not be possible to render the document.
                           - For small number of style definitions, it is not viable
 
17.  What is the meaning of the CSS selector?
    Ans: It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have
         the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.

18.  What are the media types allowed by CSS?
   Ans: (1)all:
               Suitable for all devices.
        (2)aural:
                Intended for speech synthesizers.
        (3)braille:
                  Intended for braille tactile feedback devices.
        (4)embossed:
                   Intended for paged braille printers.
        (5)handheld:
                    Intended for handheld devices (typically small screen, monochrome, limited bandwidth).
        (6)print:
                Intended for paged, opaque material and for documents viewed on screen in print preview mode.
                Please consult the section on paged media.
        (7)projection:
                      Intended for projected presentations, for example projectors or print to transparencies. 
                      Please consult the section on paged media.
        (8)screen:
                  Intended primarily for color computer screens.
        (9)tty:
               Intended for media using a fixed-pitch character grid, such as teletypes, terminals,
               or portable devices with limited display capabilities.
        (10)tv:
               Intended for television-type devices.

19.   What is the rule set?
   Ans:A table of instructions used by a controlled interface to determine what data is allowable and how the data is handled between interconnected systems.

